Update tailwindcss `@apply` suggestion (#5406)
withastro/astro: packages/integrations/tailwind/README.md

You can now [import your own `base.css` as a local stylesheet](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/styling/#import-a-local-stylesheet).

> When using the `@apply` directive in an Astro, Vue, Svelte, or another component integration's `<style>` tag, it may generate errors about your custom Tailwind class not existing and cause your builds to fail. Using nested classes like `dark:text-pink` would also not work in scoped `<style>`.

Reviewer: Do we have a clearer idea about what exactly triggers these errors? I’ve used `@apply` in `.astro` successfully, e.g. <https://github.com/withastro/astro.build/blob/a4d8460976a36e335f2b0b4289e277b190750e19/src/components/CodeHero.astro#L65-L89>

Is it only nested classes that are an issue?

Author: If I understand correctly from previous reports, classes in `@apply` are also extracted into the main tailwind css file, so there's two copies of the class. Maybe it's not obvious in a large project where it's used in several places.

Reviewer: Ahh, I see. Sounds like there are actually two (or three?) issues:

1. Some usage triggers “custom Tailwind class not existing” errors, breaking builds.

2. _Any_ usage can result in duplicate CSS, because Tailwind scans the `.astro` file to know which classes to include in the main bundle and is not smart enough to distinguish between a class name in frontmatter, a `class` attribute, etc. or inside `<style>`.

3. Nested classes like `dark:text-pink` are not compatible with `@apply` (is this actually the issue that causes 1?)

I think for **1** it would be amazing if we have more specific guidance than “may generate” if we know which usage is the issue (we may not of course).

For **2**, I think this can probably framed in terms of best practices like you’re doing in the second paragraph you added. Maybe we also state clearly there how you end up with duplicate CSS.

Author: Just tested no2 and it's false. Turns out tailwind strips of classes from `@apply` so not sure why someone mentioned it doesn't 😄 Will remove that.

For no1, it seems to be added by https://github.com/withastro/astro/pull/4353 about custom classes.

For no3, it's a separate issue from no1. `dark:text-pink` classes specifically is generated as `.dark > .text-pink`, but this doesn't match any element in the Astro markup so the compiler shakes them out.

}
```

> ### Class-based directives like `dark:text-pink` with `@apply` does not work

Reviewer: It looks like [the Tailwind docs](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/hover-focus-and-other-states) call `dark:*`, `hover:*` etc. “modifiers”. I’ve also tweaked this heading to match the previous heading format.

```suggestion
### Class with modifiers does not work with `@apply` directives
```

Author: The issue is that only some modifiers do not work though. `hover:` and `focus:` etc works because they generate `.class:hover`. `dark:` however generates `.dark .class` which is causing problems in scoped styles.

Maybe we should call them class-based modifiers?

Reviewer: Ahhhh, thank you! I had not understood that nuance.

Then, yes, maybe this heading would be more accurate:

```suggestion
### Class-based modifiers do not work with `@apply` directives
```

> Astro `<style>` tags are scoped by default. As `dark:text-pink` compiles into `.dark .text-pink`, it does not match any markup in the Astro file and is hence removed, causing the class to not be applied. This may also happen for integrations like Vue and Svelte that supports scoped styles.

Reviewer: Reworked this slightly to move the example class down from the subheading.

```suggestion
Class names using modifiers like `dark:text-pink` or `focus:ring` are not compatible with the `@apply` directive in Astro `<style>` tags. For example, `dark:text-pink` compiles to `.dark .text-pink`, which is removed from build output because it does not match any markup in the `.astro` file. The same issue may also happen in framework components that support scoped styles like Vue and Svelte.
```

Reviewer: Given the above, maybe this is more accurate? Are there any other good examples where this is the case? I guess the sample applies with the group classes like `group-hover:*`?

```suggestion
Certain Tailwind classes with modifiers rely on combining classes across multiple elements. For example, `dark:text-pink` compiles to `.dark .text-pink`. When this is used with the `@apply` directive in Astro `<style>` tags, the compiled styles are removed from the build output because they do not match any markup in the `.astro` file. The same issue may also happen in framework components that support scoped styles like Vue and Svelte.
```

Author: Yep `group-hover:*` should also have the same issue. I think that's a better example too as `dark:` could be configured to use media queries. I'll swap that out after committing your suggestion
